Our application is now working pretty well, but at the end of the last video we saw a little issue,
and this issue might be something that's been kind of nagging in the back of your head throughout this
entire course.
What happens to our application when a service goes down for some period of time?
We just saw that in the last video.
With the moderation service going down, we created a comment while the moderation service was down
and now this comment is going to be forever stuck in the pending state.
So how do we deal with this?
Let's take a look at a diagram to better understand what the real issue here is.
Okay.
So in this diagram, kind of hard to understand what's going on.
This is kind of a time sequence diagram.
So we start off time of our application, starting up for the very first time right up here, and we
have time flowing down or vertically.
In our application, we've got the event bus, the green lines throughout.
All these different services indicate times in which the service was successfully running.
So we're going to say that our event bus was running the whole time.
Post was running comments and query.
Those were all running for the entire time that our application has been up and running.
And during that time, maybe we've had a couple of events flow out.
So maybe event one went out to post comments, query and moderation successfully because all those services
were up at the time that event was sent out.
Well, let's imagine that for some period of time indicated by this red line right here, maybe the
moderation service was down.
So event two and three might have been emitted from the event bus gone over to our post, successfully
went to comments and queries successfully, but then failed to be delivered over to the moderation service.
And then maybe some time later Moderation Service came up and it received Event four.
But Events two and three have now been lost to time.
We don't currently have any way to tell moderation about these events in how they just occurred.
Now this is the scenario in which a service goes down for some little period of time.
But there's another scenario that you've probably been wondering about again throughout the first half
of this course already.
What happens if we're using this kind of event style approach and we don't bring up or we don't even
create a service until maybe sometime in the future?
So in this diagram, let's imagine that we did not initially create our query service.
And so maybe we've been running post comments in moderation for days, maybe even years, and they have
tons of data inside them and they've already received tons of events, but maybe we only created that
query service like one year down the line.
And so we're creating this query service, but it's already missed out on all these different events.
How do we somehow get query into sync?
How do we get all the existing posts and comments and results of moderation over to the query service?
Well, as usual, there's a couple of different ways to handle all these different cases.
So let's take a look at some possible solutions.
So here's option number one.
For option number one, we're going to imagine that we've had our post service in common, service running
for the entire lifetime of our application.
And then maybe one year into the future, we create the query service.
The query service, of course, needs to know about all of the posts that exist and all of the comments.
So we somehow need to get query into sync with everything else.
One way or option number one would be to use synchronous requests.
So the instant we launch query, maybe we would have some code inside of the query service to make a
direct network requests over to post and say, give me a list of all of your posts.
It could get all the different posts that exist inside the post service via plain network requests.
Once it stored all those posts, it could then turn round to the Common Service and also make a sync
request directly over and say, Give me all the comments you have.
And then I could store all those comments with the associated posts.
Now the downside to this approach is pretty clear.
We are falling back to synchronous requests.
The real downside here is that we would have to have some code inside of posts and comments just to
service or kind of handle this new service that is coming online.
Right now, we do not have any real bulk kind of endpoint where we can say, give me all the posts for
all eternity per se.
Well, okay, technically our application does right now, but you can imagine that in a production
application we would probably not have an endpoint that just says give me all posts that exist, probably
would not implement something like that.
So if we did not already have some end point like that, we would have to implement it for both posts
and comments.
Now, one thing to be clear about, after getting all the posts and comments and synchronizing all this
data, then from that point in time into the future, then the query service would start to receive
any events that are emitted from posts and comments.
So eventually query would kind of revert back to our expected behavior.
But just to get it online and up and running, it could make these initial synchronous requests.
So that's option number one.
Option number two is the one exception to that rule that we discussed earlier on inside the course around
every service having its own private database.
So it's option number two, which is kind of similar to option number one.
We could say that the instant that query came online, we could give it direct access to the data store
or essentially the database for all the posts that we have.
And same thing for comments as well.
So rather than relying upon synchronous network requests directly to the service, we could just say,
you know what, query needs all the information at a database.
Let's just give it access to the database.
Now, the upside to this is now the query service could run its own queries and figure out all the different
data that it needs to get out of the post database and common database.
After synchronizing all this data once again, the query service could start listening to different
events.
The downside to this approach is once again we are making sync requests over, which means we are going
to have to implement some code inside of query to work directly with whatever this database is or this
database is.
Let's imagine that maybe the post data store over here was my SQL and maybe the comments datastore was
MongoDB.
Now all of a sudden we need to write some code inside a query to interface with a MySQL database and
a MongoDB database.
That's a lot of extra code to potentially have to write.
So on to option number three, which as you can guess, is what we are going to be doing.
All right.
So option number three really falls into the same category that we've gone through several times in
the course where I'm going to tell you this and you're going to say, no way, not possible, totally
inefficient, can't do it.
Not going to happen.
But once again, yes, this is how people actually implement microservices.
People do this, not making this stuff up.
So it's option number three.
We're going to once again say that we are implementing or bringing query online at some point in time
in the future, like right here.
Now in theory, query could work if it had access to all the events that had been emitted in the past.
So the post service, for example, is going to emit events maybe one, two and three, and each of
these might be a post creation event.
Those are all events that Query cares about.
If Query just had access to those events.
It could work just fine, and that's what the strategy is going to rely upon.
We're going to say that whenever any of our services emits any event whatsoever over to the event bus,
the event bus will send that event out to all the other services, but it's going to do something else
at the same time.
It's going to store that event internally.
So we can imagine that after event one gets emitted, the event bus is going to store that event internally
in some kind of data structure.
Probably not in memory, probably in some kind of database or something similar because this data store
is going to grow to be very, very large over time.
We can then imagine that maybe the post service event number two.
And so we would add that on now Event Bus has a record of event one and Event two.
And then finally Event three as well.
And so we can imagine that at that point in time.
The event bus now knows about event one, two and three.
Again, I want to repeat, these events are still going out to all the other services as they currently
are.
We are just adding in one extra little step here.
The event bus is going to store all these events.
Now the upside to this approach is that if query comes along or online at some point in time, the future
where you can say over to the event bus, hey, give me access to all the events you have stored, all
of them.
Just throw them over and I'll decide whether or not I care about them.
And so we can send over event one and event two.
And Event three.
And now the query service will be totally up to speed and we can use all the same code that we've probably
already written to handle these exact events so we don't have to write any extra code.
The only extra burden we really have here is storing all these events inside of our event bus data store.
Now, admittedly, this data store could grow to be extremely large over time.
But as you saw from that calculation we did a little bit ago where we said, hey, we could pay like
$15 a month for 100 million products.
Well, even though it might cost some amount of money, it probably costs way less than you might think.
So that's what we're going to do inside this course.
We are going to be using option number three.
We're going to say that whenever we emit an event, we're going to store it with our event bus so that
if we ever bring a service online in the future, we can get access to all those events that occurred
in the past.
This also solves the issue with a service going down for some point in time.
Let's imagine I don't have a diagram prepared for this, but I'll just improvise really quick.
So let's imagine that.
Moderation misses out on events two and three, but it did receive event one.
When moderation comes back online right here, it can take a look at what the last event was that it
received.
Maybe moderation would know that it had received event one and it could say to the event bus, Hey,
give me all the events.
Give me everything that occurred during the time that I was down.
And so Event Bus can say, okay, you received event one, we'll give you everything since then so we
can take event to.
Throw it over to moderation and event three.
Throw it over.
And now.
Moderation is all caught up.
It's received two events, two in three, even though it was down for some period of time.
So you can see that this approach actually ends up working out pretty well.
Not only does it solve the issue of bringing services online in the future, but it also solves this
problem of events possibly being missed while a service is experiencing some amount of downtime.
All right.
So let's take a pause right here.
I apologize for the long video.
We'll continue in just a moment.